## container

hierarchy 等级制度  
CI/CD 中的“CD”指的是持续交付和/或持续部署
#### introduction
Finally, at the top level is the stack, defining the interactions of all the services, 

stack  
services  
container(i am here)

docker can grab a portable Python runtime as an image ,no installation necessary.Then, your build can include the base Python image right alongside your app code, ensuring that your app, its dependencies, and the runtime, all travel together.

these protable images are defined by something called a `dockerfile`.

#### define a container with dockerfile 

resources like networking interfaces and disk drivers is virtualized inside this environment ,which is isolated from the rest of your system,so you need to map ports to the outside world   

Dockerfile 

create an empty directory on your local machine ,change directories into new directory,create a file called dockerfile 


```
# Use an official Python runtime as a parent image
FROM python:2.7-slim

# Set the working directory to /app
WORKDIR /app

# Copy the current directory contents into the container at /app
COPY . /app

# Install any needed packages specified in requirements.txt
RUN pip install --trusted-host pypi.python.org -r requirements.txt

# Make port 80 available to the world outside this container
EXPOSE 80

# Define environment variable
ENV NAME World

# Run app.py when the container launches
CMD ["python", "app.py"]


```

 run build command  this creates a docker image which we are going to name using the --tag option
docker build --tag=friendlyhello . use -t if you want to use the shorter option.


troubleshooting for linux user 故障排除  

Proxy server settings

Proxy servers can block connections to your web app once it’s up and running. If you are behind a proxy server, add the following lines to your Dockerfile, using the ENV command to specify the host and port for your proxy servers:
```
# Set proxy server, replace host:port with values for your servers
ENV http_proxy host:port
ENV https_proxy host:port
```

DNS settings

```
{
  "dns": ["your_dns_address", "8.8.8.8"]
}
```

Before proceeding, save daemon.json and restart the docker service.

`sudo service docker restart`

Once fixed, retry to run the build command.


## Run the app

Run the app, mapping your machine’s port 4000 to the container’s published port 80 using -p:

`docker run -p 4000:80 friendlyhello`


*** Note: If you are using Docker Toolbox on Windows 7, use the Docker Machine IP instead of localhost. For example, http://192.168.99.100:4000/. To find the IP address, use the command docker-machine ip. ***



Now let’s run the app in the background, in detached mode:


`docker run -d -p 4000:80 friendlyhello`

```
$ docker container ls
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED
1fa4ab2cf395        friendlyhello       "python app.py"     28 seconds ago
```
Now use docker container stop to end the process, using the CONTAINER ID, like so:

```
docker container stop 1fa4ab2cf395
```


## Share your image

#### Log in with your Docker ID
`$ docker login`

#### Tag the image
`docker tag image username/repository:tag`

For example:

`docker tag friendlyhello gordon/get-started:part2`  

Run docker image ls to see your newly tagged image.


```
$ docker image ls

REPOSITORY               TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
friendlyhello            latest              d9e555c53008        3 minutes ago       195MB
gordon/get-started         part2               d9e555c53008        3 minutes ago       195MB
python                   2.7-slim            1c7128a655f6        5 days ago          183MB
...
```
#### Publish the image

`docker push username/repository:tag`   

Pull and run the image from the remote repository

`docker run -p 4000:80 username/repository:tag`
