## service  

we scale our application and enable load-balancing. To do this, we must go one level up in the hierarchy of a distributed application: the service.  
docker-compse.yml

```
version: "3"
services:
  web:
    # replace username/repo:tag with your name and image details
    image: username/repo:tag
    deploy:
      replicas: 5
      resources:
        limits:
          cpus: "0.1"
          memory: 50M
      restart_policy:
        condition: on-failure
    ports:
      - "4000:80"
    networks:
      - webnet
networks:
  webnet:
```


#### This docker-compose.yml file tells Docker to do the following:

Pull the image we uploaded in step 2 from the registry.

Run 5 instances of that image as a service called web, limiting each one to use, at most, 10% of a single core of CPU time (this could also be e.g. “1.5” to mean 1 and half core for each), and 50MB of RAM.

Immediately restart containers if one fails.

Map port 4000 on the host to web’s port 80.

Instruct web’s containers to share port 80 via a load-balanced network called webnet. (Internally, the containers themselves publish to web’s port 80 at an ephemeral port.)

Define the webnet network with the default settings (which is a load-balanced overlay network).

## Run your new load-balanced app

Before we can use the docker stack deploy command we first run:

`docker swarm init`
#### Note: We get into the meaning of that command in part 4. If you don’t run docker swarm init you get an error that “this node is not a swarm manager.”

Now let’s run it. You need to give your app a name. Here, it is set to getstartedlab:


`docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.yml getstartedlab`

Get the service ID for the one service in our application:


`docker service ls`

Alternatively, you can run docker stack services, followed by the name of your stack.   

Take the app down with docker stack rm:

`docker stack rm getstartedlab`

Take down the swarm.

`docker swarm leave --force
`


```
docker stack ls                                            # List stacks or apps
docker stack deploy -c <composefile> <appname>  # Run the specified Compose file
docker service ls                 # List running services associated with an app
docker service ps <service>                  # List tasks associated with an app
docker inspect <task or container>                   # Inspect task or container
docker container ls -q                                      # List container IDs
docker stack rm <appname>                             # Tear down an application
docker swarm leave --force      # Take down a single node swarm from the manager
```